this is all a Doherty possibly the most
patient producer director I've ever
worked with and together we spent almost
500 hours in this tiny bubble behind us
this is Gavin Thurston top wildlife
cameraman I've had the privilege of
working with him for weeks on end
giving him chocolate to keep him happy
the worst thing about it is when we're
in front of something absolutely
incredible knowing that we're only gonna
be with it for about 10 minutes and
missing the moment because the sub moves
or the Cowan drifts us or whatever it is
and we knowing that will never ever see
that animal that landscape again this
was about to be are they I dunno if this
really worked the problems have been
endless cameras not working the lights
not working finding you get down to 900
meters like sort of record-breaking
depths of beneath the ocean three of you
in that tiny sub to find out you've only
got to sandwich boxes diving here well
they're always concerned about seals not
that's not Arctic seal or Antarctic
seals we're talking about the o-rings
that actually stop water coming into the
submarine and where I've said although
you just keep an eye on that hatch and
make sure it's not leaking and I
honestly thought he was joking but he
wasn't the highlight for me has been
seeing animals that we believe are
surface animals that live in the top
layer of the ocean and encountering them
at phenomenal depths like swordfish
coming straight at us at 700 meters and
yes there was screaming just getting a
whole new insight into how deep these
animals work that how their world is so
much
than we ever imagined that's been
incredible occasionally all are swapped
out and let the scientists come into the
deep and I say to the scientists you see
that thing there we've been seeing a lot
of those what's that and the scientist
goes I have no idea and it's fantastic
to think there are things 800 meters
beneath our feet now are things that
nobody's seen before that we don't even
know what they are
[Music]
you